# Chapter 2: Privacy
## Privacy Risks and Principles
### What is Privacy?
#### There are three key aspects of privacy:
- Freedom from intrusion &mdash; being left alone 
- Control of information about oneself
- Freedom from surveilance (from being followed, tracked, watched, and eavesdropped upon)

#### Privacy threats come in several categories:
- Intentional, institutional uses of personal information
- Unauthorized use of release by "insiders"
- Theft of information
- Inadvertent leakage of information through negligence or carelessness
- Our own actions

We cannot expect complete privacy. Many friends and acquaintances know what you look like, where you work, what car you drive, and other similar information about you. They do not need your permission to observe or talk about you. 

Control of information about yourself means control of what is in other people's minds, phones, and more. It is limited by basic human rights, freedom of speech.

At the same time we cannot expect to be totally free from surveillance. People see or hear us when we move in public (both physically and in the Internet)

If you live in a small town, you have little privacy, everybody knows everything about you. If you are in a big city, you are nearly anonymous.

If people know nothing about you, they might be taking a risk if they let you rent a place, hire you, lend you money, and so on. So we give up some privacy for the benefits of dealing with strangers.

We choose to give up more in exchange for other benefits like convenience, personalized service, and communication with friends.

### New Technology, New Risks